.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH JITTERDEBUGGER 1
.SH NAME
jitterdebugger \- measures wake up latencies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jitterdebugger [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jitterdebugger
measures wake up latencies. jitterdebugger starts a
thread on each CPU which programs a timer and measures the time it
takes from the timer expiring until the thread which set the timer
runs again.

jitterdebugger default settings will produce a correct meassurement.

The program runs until CTRL-C or SIGTERM is received. The results are
printed to STDOUT as JSON encoded string.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-h, --help"
Show help text and exit.
.TP
.BI "-v, --verbose"
Show live updates of the measurments
.TP
.BI "-f, --file=" FILE
Write the results into the FILE
.TP
.BI "-l, --loops=" N
Run meassurments N times and the terminate jitterdebugger.
.TP
.BI "-b, --break=" N
Run jitterdebugger until the N or greater latency has been
observed. jitterdebugger will also stop a running tracer by writing
0 to tracing/tracing_on. Furthermore, the value observed will be
written to the trace buffers tracing/trace_marker, e.g "Hit latency
249".
.TP
.BI "-i, --interval=" N
Set the sleep time between each measuring. The default value is 1000us
.TP
.BI "-o, --output=" FILE
Write all samples measured into FILE. This file is binary encoded and
can be decoded using jittersamples.
.TP
.BI "-a, --affinity=" CPUSET
Set the CPU affinity mask. jitterdebugger starts only meassuring
threads on CPUSET,. e.g. 0,2,5-7 starts a thread on first, third and
5, 6 and 7 CPU.
May also be set in hexadecimal with '0x' prefix
.TP
.BI "-p, --priority=" PRI
Set the priority of the meassuring threads. The default value is
98. Note priority 99 is not available because 99 should only be used
for kernel housekeeping tasks.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# jitterdebugger  -v
affinity: 0,1 = 2 [0x3]
T: 0 (  614) A: 0 C:     13476 Min:         3 Avg:    3.08 Max:        10
T: 1 (  615) A: 1 C:     13513 Min:         3 Avg:    3.10 Max:        20
^C
{
  "cpu": {
    "0": {
      "histogram": {
        "3": 4070,
        "4": 269,
        "5": 26,
        "6": 5,
        "7": 1,
        "8": 1,
        "9": 2,
        "10": 1
      },
      "count": 4375,
      "min": 3,
      "max": 10,
      "avg": 3.08
    },
    "1": {
      "histogram": {
        "3": 4002,
        "4": 320,
        "5": 22,
        "6": 4,
        "7": 2,
        "8": 1,
        "10": 2,
        "11": 1,
        "16": 2,
        "20": 1
      },
      "count": 4357,
      "min": 3,
      "max": 20,
      "avg": 3.10
    }
  }
}
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR jittersamples (1)
.BR jitterplot (1)
